README.md, before:

# Purple Agent

The A2A implementation of the purple agent.

## Project Structure

```
src/
└─ memory/
   ├─ base.py     # Defines the basic memory manager class
   ├─ schema.py   # Defines the basic unit of the memory block
   └─ fifo.py     # FIFO Memory Manger
├─ .env           # Configuration
├─ server.py      # Server setup and agent card configuration
├─ executor.py    # A2A request handling
├─ agent.py       # Purple agent implementation
├─ prompts.py     # System prompt is stored here
├─ tools.py       # Tool schema to interact with the simulator
└─ messenger.py   # A2A messaging utilities
tests/
└─ test_agent.py  # Agent tests
Dockerfile        # Docker configuration
pyproject.toml    # Python dependencies
.github/
└─ workflows/
   └─ test-and-publish.yml # CI workflow
```

## Running Locally

```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Run the server
uv run src/server.py
```

## Running with Docker

```bash
# Build the image
docker build -t my-agent .

# Run the container
docker run -p 9009:9009 my-agent
```

## Testing

Run A2A conformance tests against your agent.

```bash
# Install test dependencies
uv sync --extra test

# Start your agent (uv or docker; see above)

# Run tests against your running agent URL
uv run pytest --agent-url http://localhost:9009
```

## Publishing

The repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically builds, tests, and publishes a Docker image of your agent to GitHub Container Registry.

If your agent needs API keys or other secrets, add them in Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions → Repository secrets. They'll be available as environment variables during CI tests.

- **Push to `main`** → publishes `latest` tag:
```
ghcr.io/<your-username>/<your-repo-name>:latest
```

- **Create a git tag** (e.g. `git tag v1.0.0 && git push origin v1.0.0`) → publishes version tags:
```
ghcr.io/<your-username>/<your-repo-name>:1.0.0
ghcr.io/<your-username>/<your-repo-name>:1
```

Once the workflow completes, find your Docker image in the Packages section (right sidebar of your repository). Configure the package visibility in package settings.

> **Note:** Organization repositories may need package write permissions enabled manually (Settings → Actions → General). Version tags must follow [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) (e.g., `v1.0.0`).

Commit message:

Added an introduction clarifying the division of responsibilities between the Green and Purple agents.

README.md, after:

# Purple Agent

The A2A implementation of the purple agent.

Green Agent serves three roles: **question setter**, **environment simulator**, and **evaluator**. Purple Agent is provided with the tool specifications but **does not have real tool implementations**—we use it to assess the LLM's ability to **operate smart home devices**, **understand and follow user instructions**, and **maintain long-term memory**. When interaction with the environment is needed, Purple Agent issues a **tool call**, which is forwarded to Green Agent for execution, and the results are then returned.

## Project Structure

```
src/
└─ memory/
   ├─ base.py     # Defines the basic memory manager class
   ├─ schema.py   # Defines the basic unit of the memory block
   └─ fifo.py     # FIFO Memory Manger
├─ .env           # Configuration
├─ server.py      # Server setup and agent card configuration
├─ executor.py    # A2A request handling
├─ agent.py       # Purple agent implementation
├─ prompts.py     # System prompt is stored here
├─ tools.py       # Tool schema to interact with the simulator
└─ messenger.py   # A2A messaging utilities
tests/
└─ test_agent.py  # Agent tests
Dockerfile        # Docker configuration
pyproject.toml    # Python dependencies
.github/
└─ workflows/
   └─ test-and-publish.yml # CI workflow
```

## Running Locally

```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Run the server
uv run src/server.py
```

## Running with Docker

```bash
# Build the image
docker build -t my-agent .

# Run the container
docker run -p 9009:9009 my-agent
```

## Testing

Run A2A conformance tests against your agent.

```bash
# Install test dependencies
uv sync --extra test

# Start your agent (uv or docker; see above)

# Run tests against your running agent URL
uv run pytest --agent-url http://localhost:9009
```

## Publishing

The repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically builds, tests, and publishes a Docker image of your agent to GitHub Container Registry.

If your agent needs API keys or other secrets, add them in Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions → Repository secrets. They'll be available as environment variables during CI tests.

- **Push to `main`** → publishes `latest` tag:
```
ghcr.io/<your-username>/<your-repo-name>:latest
```

- **Create a git tag** (e.g. `git tag v1.0.0 && git push origin v1.0.0`) → publishes version tags:
```
ghcr.io/<your-username>/<your-repo-name>:1.0.0
ghcr.io/<your-username>/<your-repo-name>:1
```

Once the workflow completes, find your Docker image in the Packages section (right sidebar of your repository). Configure the package visibility in package settings.

> **Note:** Organization repositories may need package write permissions enabled manually (Settings → Actions → General). Version tags must follow [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) (e.g., `v1.0.0`).
